entity references exist to remove ambiguity from an XML document.
As we've seen my right in XML,
he used certain special characters.
The left angle bracket and right angle bracket are used to enclose elements.
When you define an attribute,
the value of the attributes has to be placed inside quotation marks.
By the way,
both double and single quotation marks are permissible so clearly,
if you want to use any of these characters in normal usage within your data,
this concretely eight ambiguity and the main function of entity references is to remove
these ambiguity the most typical way of writing an entity.
Reference issues in these three components m percent the name of the entity and then a semi
colon.
An XML has five built in entities designed to remove any potential ambiguity from your XML
Marca.
The less than sign has the name lt greater than GT double quotation marks.
Quote.
The ampersand is,
um,
and apostrophe is a pause.
Let's get some practice on using entity references in zero to X Emily Central's Let's Go
into Number five entity references.
Let's begin by opening this Jay Pek file in design XML Doctor A pig.
So the scenario we're going to simulate is where we want to submit.
A tutorial to a website on the tutorial has to be submitted in XML format.
This is a diagram showing the XML structure that's required.
The root element is called tutorial and inside this building and also a title and then one
or more topic elements inside each of the topic elements.
We must start with a title and then we can have as many parent elements as we want next.
Let's have a look at the raw text that we're going to convert into the XML.
That's tutorial dot txt is our title.
He is our author and he has the title off our topic.
We've only got one topic element this time,
and then each of these would be inside a parent element.
Let's go ahead and create the XML file open up to you to real dot XML and here we've got a
blank XML file,
so we'll start with the XML Declaration Next,
the root element tutorial if we will work into a specification.
XML is case sensitive,
so we need to take the case into account and then we'll leave some space for the child
elements next to want the title of the editorial Also on the topic inside the topic,
we then have a title and insight that we then have a series of para elements and I'm just
gonna copy this line three clicks to highlight the whole line Control C and control the and
I think from memory We need five of these.
So I've just got five power elements and next we just copy the text from our plain text
file.
Is the title control Visa pace?
No,
right.
Take available in brackets.
And when we come to the title inside the topic and then we've got to think about the
paragraphs.
So this point,
it would be good to address the question off these illegal symbols.
So what we need to do is to replace each of them we have,
I think three of the five we've got greater than less Stan Onda double quotes.
So we need to replace every occurrence of these three symbols with the entity references.
I'm just using note pad,
but I'm sure that whatever editor you're use in as the fine and replace command so less
than will be replaced with ampersand.
Lt for less than and then semi colon replace all greater than will be replaced with
ampersand.
G t semi colon replace all and finally quotes double quotes We replaced with ampersand.
Quote semi couple and replace all.
So now we safe so we could start copying across our paragraph elements on just control V to
paste each of them in.
So let's say that changes
and fingers crossed.
If we haven't missed anything,
that should now be a valid XML document.
So let's just move back to the training folder.
Let's move back into structure of an XML document on its Remember in XML validation,
we have the Earl of Code beautify so we could just copy that going to a browser and then we
can validate our XML.
So he called me a liar.
XML control,
See or edit copy control V to paste it in on validates.
Did you see that we have valid XML